# EM-Lanyard
"The Ethnomethodologist's Lanyard" - a wearable device comprising a Raspberry Pi Zero and an inky pHAT e-ink display, which randomly cycles through messages that are designed to display, in text, what a person is (or will be) doing. The wittnessable, accountable features of social action are made instructive, gamified, breached.

Coupled with a 3D printed case to which a lanyard clip/pin can be attached, this device acts as a name badge of sorts which, depending on the situated context in which it is placed, will display intentions as instructions, such that they can be, literally, read from people. Awks and cringes ensue. But we also learn somethins about what people do in these situated contexts, and what the facilitations and tensions are in making actions so directly readable in this way might be.

The code can't be separated from situated context - it has to be directly grounded in an activity. The activity I'm demonstrating this with in this repository is "academic conference-going", as part of a project which myself and other ethnomethodologists at Cardiff (Rob Smith, Terry Au Yeung, Patrik Dahl, Patricia Jimenez Lugo and Jonathan Ablitt) are doing for "The Sociological Review: Undisciplining II" conference in Salford UK September 2024. The idea is that we populate the messages list with things relevant to stuff that people do at conferences ("Hi, I'm Phil and I'm...Trying to tag on to someone's dinner plans", "Hi, I'm Phil and I'm...Going to see a talk that's not relevant to me", etc), ask a selection of participants to wear these messages throughout the conference while they update every now and then (when the Raspberry Pi is plugged in), and ask them to report back on their experiences so we can learn about their experiences of conference-going in terms of how the device got in their way, how it creates awkward tensions, how it might encourage to do things they might not normally do but which would be beneficial to them, and so on. "Undisciplining the Conference", as the title of our talk has it.

But in principle, you could use something like this for all manner of social interactions - starting a new job, doing a baby class, shopping, being at a party, whatever.

The code comes with three files - a "main" Python file which handles all the mechanics of the device, a "messages" Python file into which you can put new messages in the form of tuples in a list, and a "messages.txt" file which acts as a data log for remembering which messages have been selected previously and avoiding those in future (this is empty, but uploaded here to show that you need it for the code to run). The code is a bit hacky (it can only select new messages through brute force randomisation for instance, but for a short dataset of messages there's no real time lag), but it works!

To build the device, you'll need a Raspberry Pi Zero 2 W, an inky pHAT, a 3D printer for the case, a bit of blu tack to stick the lid on the case down, and a lanyard clip/pin to attach to the back to make it wearable. There will be pics and links to the 3D print .stl files elsewhere in this repository. If you build one, cite our talk, and this repository.
